Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or NSAIDs,
reduce pain inflammation and swelling,
while helping the body return to a normal temperature.
When the body is injured or ill,
it releases cyclooxygenase, an enzyme commonly known as COX.
COX enzyme increases production of prostaglandins or PGs.
While some PGs are necessary for cell health,
others can irritate nerves and cause pain and swelling.
NSAIDs help control two specific types of COX enzymes,
COX-1 and COX-2.
NSAIDs stop both types of COX enzymes from working.
Thus reducing the level of PGs.
Newer NSAIDs are designed to target COX-2 selectively
and leave COX-1 alone.
Ideally this reduces pain and inflammation
without upsetting the stomach.